in today's video i am going to be
recapping the events of
annihilation a 2018 science fiction
horror film
a biologist signs up for a dangerous
secret expedition into a mysterious zone
where the laws of nature don't apply
spoilers ahead you have been worn now
like the video and subscribe to the
channel if you
enjoy this video our main character lena
narrates her experience in a sealed room
with a few scientists dressed in ppe
suits
she's the sole survivor of a top secret
mission lomax her interviewer asks her
about her teammates
she simply says they died lena is a
biology professor
her husband kane had disappeared on a
covert military mission
she's still grieving about him after a
year he returns to her
and she's overjoyed they sit down and
talk
she asks him about the mission but he
gives confusing answers
and knows very little he doesn't even
know how he came back to her
the only thing he knows is that one
moment he was outside the bedroom
and recognized her face he sips some
water when he puts down the glass
there's blood in it on their way to the
hospital his condition worsens to
seizures and he spits out more blood
police sirens follow them they stop the
ambulance and tell everyone to step out
they hold in the back and sedate her she
wakes up in a bed wearing orange
overalls a woman introduces herself as
dr
ventress a psychologist she knows about
lena's military career of seven years
and her job as a professor she asks what
her husband told her after coming back
to her
or before leaving for the mission did he
contact her when he was away
lena tells the truth which is that he
never spoke about the mission
she's informed that her husband's alive
but in a critical condition as a result
of internal bleeding
standing at the balcony of the southern
reach base located at area x
lina sees ground stretching till a
strange translucent wall of a texture
similar to oil on water the base is part
of a classified project that aims to
investigate the phenomenon coined as
the shimmer three years ago a lighthouse
was covered in the shimmer
from there it's been constantly
expanding nothing or no one sent
in comes back safe for her husband lina
makes new friends at the base
anya cassie and josie who are going into
the shimmer with dr ventress
they are the first all scientist team
unlike previous teams that were only
military
they have two theories on the people
that vanish in the shimmer someone kills
them
or they kill each other lena requests to
join the team because she feels she owes
it to her husband
she's taken into the team because of her
military and science background
ventress sets the mission statement that
is to go to the lighthouse
all five women walk into the shimmer
inside the shimmer they're living in
tents in a forest
the team doesn't remember what happened
after they entered the shimmer
checking their inventory they estimate
they've been here for three to four days
their radios can't send signals outside
the shimmer and the compass isn't
working
the only alternative they have is to
observe the sun for time and direction
they trek to a hut near a swamp lena
observes the flowers of different
species are growing from the same branch
an alligator pulls josie radek into the
water they
save her and shoot the alligator after
inspecting the body
lena says the alligator is the same case
as the flowers
a combination of different species like
a set of shark teeth in an
alligator's mouth lena explains to lomax
the mutations got stranger as they moved
closer to the lighthouse
they crossed the water in boats lena and
cass connect
after talking about losing a loved one
josie and anja have their own demons
everyone on the team has a reason for
coming into danger like this
life has dealt them a bad hand they see
more mutations when they get to land
malignant this time they reach a
facility that was the headquarters of
the southern reach before it was
swallowed by the shimmer
they decide to stay there for the night
names written on a board tell them the
people of the last expedition stayed
there as well
ventress finds a memory card left by the
previous team it contains a video of
kane cutting open his teammate's stomach
the man's intestine is moving inside him
like a worm
anya the paramedic denies it when it was
clearly moving
deeper in the facility they find the
spot where the video was shot
and the body of the man pulled apart and
stuck to the wall
covered in roots waking up from a memory
of her husband leaving
lena decides to study the cells
multiplying and changing form
she goes to ventress who is on guard
outside they hear
growling in the distance and wake the
others the fence around the facility is
torn open
a bear-like creature attacks and takes
cassie shepherd
when they reach to help her the creature
has already vanished with her
next morning josie and anya think they
should go back they have enough evidence
to confirm their theories
ventress argues that the evidence solves
nothing only raises more questions and
leaves for the lighthouse
the epicenter of the shimmer lena's
logic says that the way back is six days
but the perimeter near the coast is only
two days hence they should go ahead to
get out
in the present she admits to lomax that
she lied she wanted to go to the
lighthouse too
they continue their trek until they find
cass as his boot lena investigates ahead
on that route to find her body
further ahead they find a house to spend
the night in the plants around are
growing in the shape of
human bodies josie observes that the
radios work
only they can't reach outside the
shimmer the signal scrambled because
radio waves inside the shimmer
refract back like a prism this also goes
for biological matter like dna
hence the cells that were once defining
the human body plan
are now used as the building blocks of a
plant system
at night lina's at the microscope again
she takes her own sample and sees her
blood cells
changing she dreams of the memory of
cheating on her husband
filled with regret she awakens only to
be attacked by an angry and paranoid
anya
lena wakes up gagged and tied to a chair
with ventress and josie beside her
anya believes lina lied about the
monster and killed cass
that's the truth or anya is the crazy
one she admits to seeing her
fingerprints moving
and she fears that if she's cut open
like in the video they might see her
insides moving
they hear cass crying for help and anya
runs out of the house
the bear like creature enters they
realize that cassis's cries are coming
from the creature's mouth
the creature stops at josie and sniffs
anya comes back neck bleeding and the
creature kills her
instead josie shoots it ventress packs
up saying that if they wait here any
longer
they won't be alive or sane she leaves
for the lighthouse
next morning lena confirms josie's
refraction theory
their own cells are being affected small
tendrils and leaves are coming out of
josie's arms her cells rapidly transform
and she doesn't want to fight it
within seconds she disappears into thin
air
lena grieves josie before she resumes
her trek to the coast
she sees the lighthouse in the distance
crystallized trees rise from the sand
there are bones outside the lighthouse
she walks inside
gun in hand white roots creep up the
walls
a camera is facing a skeleton she plays
the footage of the previous team
traveling to the lighthouse
a person from the previous team sits
where the skeleton is and says he
thought he was someone
that he had a life he's not sure anymore
he
burns himself using a phosphorus grenade
beside the skeleton is a black hole
lena hears voices coming from it and
steps into the tunnel
inside sits ventress she explains that
they will be fragmented to the smallest
cell and redistributed
they won't be them her body
disintegrates into tiny sparks that
float away
until nothing remains of her her cell
splitting and disappearing a light calls
lena closer
it takes a drop of blood from her skin
converts it and turns into a
shimmering body the figure walks towards
her she runs up and it's waiting for her
up there
it mirrors her movements she hits it
with the camera stand and gets knocked
down in turn
the figure mirrors her again as she
regains consciousness and sits up
she runs to the door but it stops her
and pushes her against the door
she loses consciousness again she wakes
up and reaches for the phosphorus
grenade from the bag near the skeleton
she hands it to the figure when they
touch it it turns into her
overcoming the shock of the duplication
lena pulls the ring of the grenade and
escapes
the figure burns so does the lighthouse
and the mutations with it
the shimmer fades away lena tells lomax
the origin was alien and that they
weren't mutating but changing and
creating
the disappearance of the shimmer heals
her husband she meets him
their eyes shimmer as they hug thanks
for watching
like the video and subscribe to the
channel if you enjoyed and want to see
more of these movie summaries